---
title: Componet-Driven Development In Under 5 Minutes
description: 'Expository'
---

My team and I have just begun work on a new enterprise web application, and I’ve
been tasked with implementing the design of the user interface. While it has
been tempting to add the different components ad hoc, we’ve decided to first
construct the UI primitives (buttons, form elements, etc) in isolation,
incorporating a true design system of reusable components into our workflow.

## What is Component-Driven Development?

Modern web and software development has undoubtedly seen a strong tendency
toward component libraries and frameworks (think React, Vue, or Angular). Unlike
page-based development (a design process that treats the application as a
collection of pages, each with their own purposes and functionalities),
component-driven design (CDD) focuses around building the UI from the component
up. This modular approach allows developers to focus on creating these
building-blocks in isolation from application-specific logic and/or state. These
components can then be reused across applications and organizations.

## Benefits

### Strength and Stability

By building out your UI component in isolation, you can define its various
states and more easily test its functionality. Discover bugs and pinpoint edge
cases before ever touching the logic of your application, then reuse them as
part of a design system or component library.

### Consistency

By reusing components across your project, you can ensure your application
portrays a sense of clarity, uniformity, intent and purpose. Think brand
identity and style guides.

### Efficiency

Share tasks across your team to more rapidly build and ship products. Collect
crucial feedback from various stakeholders quickly and easily, without the need
for complex development environments.

## Where To Start

Perhaps the best example of component-driven development in the wild is
Storybook, an open-source “frontend workshop for UI development”. You can use
Storybook to build and test UI components (and even pages) in isolation, or
browse and use existing design systems and component libraries. It provides a
simple interface for accessing components, testing interactions in the browser,
and collaborating across design and development teams. You can also use
Storybook to publish your design system/component library as an NPM package, or
as a tool for writing documentation.

You can find some in-depth reading over at
[componentdriven.org](https://www.componentdriven.org/), try your hand at some
tutorials at [storybook.js.org](https://storybook.js.org/), or take a
free-access course at
[https://egghead.io/courses/component-driven-development-in-react-e0bf](https://egghead.io/courses/component-driven-development-in-react-e0bf)

## Conclusion

As user interfaces become increasingly complex, Component-Driven Development is
becoming the more common-place methodology of ensuring the quality, durability,
and scalability of applications. Storybook is the most popular tool for
developing components in isolation, and is a great place to start diving into
the practicality of building your next project from the component up.
